Expo Update Spec (#12461)
expo/expo: docs/pages/update-spec/introduction.md

---
title: Update Spec

> sidebar_title: EAS Update 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_title: Expo Updates 0
```

---

version 0

---

## Introduction

This is the specification for EAS Update a protocol for managing over the air updates to apps running on multiple platforms.

### Conformance

Conforming servers and clients must fulfill all normative requirements. Conformance requirements are described in this document via both descriptive assertions and key words with clearly defined meanings.

The key words “MUST”, “MUST NOT”, “REQUIRED”, “SHALL”, “SHALL NOT”, “SHOULD”, “SHOULD NOT”, “RECOMMENDED”, “MAY”, and “OPTIONAL” in the normative portions of this document are to be interpreted as described in [IETF RFC 2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119). These key words may appear in lowercase and still retain their meaning unless explicitly declared as non‐normative.

> A conforming implementation of may provide additional functionality, but must not where explicitly disallowed or would otherwise result in non‐conformance.

Author: I took this sentence the graphQL spec: https://spec.graphql.org/June2018/ and it seems to be a pretty standard way of referencing this http RFC.

### Overview

EAS Update is a protocol for managing over the air updates to an app running on multiple platforms. 

> In particular, it is a protocol for fetching an `update` where an `update` is defined as a [manifest](#manifest) together with the assets it references.

Author: I like this convention.

An app running a conformant EAS Update client will load the most recent update saved by the client.

In order to obtain an `update`:
1. The client makes a [request](#request). 
2. If the response body is a new manifest (checking the manifest ID is sufficient) it proceeds to download and store the assets referenced by the manifest.
3. The client updates the local state according to any metadata provided by the response [headers](#headers)

> We anticipate the primary user of this spec will be companies who need to manage their own update server to satisfy internal requirements.

Reviewer: In this context, specification is the right word. This is for people who want to use the spec to implement the protocol, not people who want to use the protocol. (If you want to use that protocol, just use expo-updates and EAS Update.)

> We anticipate the primary user of this spec will be companies who need to manage their own update server to satisfy internal requirements.

Author: leaving in protocol, but changing `companies` -> `organizations`.

> ## Request

Reviewer 2: This describes a request for a manifest. We should also describe the request expected for an asset. (A GET request that contains a query parameter containing the `url` field of the asset in the manifest)

A conformant client MUST make a GET request with the following standard headers:

```
accept: application/expo+json,application/json
expo-platform: string
expo-runtime-version: string

> expo-channel-name: string

Reviewer: I've been using lowercase headers since it's what modern HTTP/2 and 3 clients use now.

expo-channel-name is an EAS concept and likely should be removed from this spec.

It's fine for a client to accept just application/json but preferred for it to use expo+json so that servers can easily tell when to send back an Expo manifest. It's also okay for clients to accept other content types in addition to json (this will be important for non-JSON manifests).

> expo-channel-name: string

Author: > expo-channel-name

So we've gone back and forth about what to do if a request is made without `expo-channel-name` on the EAS servers.

I'm thinking that if we are going to drop `expo-channel-name` as a requirement (makes sense) then we should move back to having the EAS server default to `main` instead of returning a 400.

> expo-channel-name: string

Author: Talked with james and keeping it 400.

```
Along with any headers stipulated by a previous responses' [server defined headers](#server-defined-headers):

* `expo-platform` MUST be platform type the client is running on: 
    * iOS MUST be `expo-platform: ios`
    * android MUST be `expo-platform: android`
* `expo-runtime-version` MUST be the runtime version the client is running on.
* `expo-channel-name` MUST be the name of the channel that the client is associated with.

If the client wishes to verify the integrity of the request it may require a a signature be included as a response header `expo-manifest-signature`:
```
expo-accept-signature: boolean
```

## Response

A conformant server MUST return a body containing the [manifest](#manifest) along with the [headers](#headers) specified below.

The choice of manifest and headers are dependent on the values of the request headers. A conformant server MUST:

* Return a manifest that describes an `update` capable of running on the platform and runtime version specific in the `expo-platform` and `expo-runtime-version` request headers. 
* Return a `manifest` that describes the most recent, sorted by creation time, `update` satisfying the constraints imposed by:

>   * The `expo-channel-name` 

Reviewer: Generalize this. Channels are specific to EAS.

expo-manifest-signature-version: 0
expo-manifest-signature: string
expo-sfv-version: 0
expo-manifest-filters: expo-sfv
expo-server-defined-headers: expo-sfv
cache-control: *
content-type: application/json; charset=utf-8
```

* `expo-protocol-version` describes the protocol in this doc and MUST be `0`.
* `expo-manifest-signature-version` MUST be included if the `expo-accept-signature` header was set to true in the request. EAS Update version 0 MUST set this to `0`.
* `expo-manifest-signature` version `0` MUST be an RSA SHA256 signature of the response body.
* `expo-sfv-version`  EAS Update version 0 MUST set this to `0`.
* `expo-sfv`   [expo SFV 0](expo-sfv-0.md) version `0` is a partial implementation of Structured Field Values outlined in [IETF RFC 8941](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8941)
* `expo-manifest-filters` is an [expo SFV 0](expo-sfv-0.md) dictionary and is used to filter the updates stored by the client by `updateMetadata` attributes found in the [manifest](#manifest).
  * For example: `expo-manifest-filters: branchname="main"` instructs the client to load the most recent update it has stored whose `updateMetadata` contains:

  ```
  updateMetadata: {

>     branchname: 'main',

Author: I'm going to take out branchname.

```
{
  hash: string
  key: string
  contentType: string
  url: string
}
```
then the response body is referred to as the `manifest` and MUST be a json with format:
```
{
  id: string
  createdAt: date
  runtimeVersion: string
  launchAsset: Asset,
  assets: Asset[],
  updateMetadata: {
    updateGroup: string
    branchName: string
  }
}
```
  * `id` The ID MUST uniquely specify the manifest, however the different headers may accompany identical IDs in a response.
  * `createdAt` Time created is essential as the client selects the most recent update (subject to any contraints supplied in the `expo-manifest-filters` header).
  * `runtimeVersion` Can be any string defined by the developer. It stipulates what native code setup is required to run the associated javascript bundle.
  * `Asset` Provides information about the asset and where to obtain it.
    * `hash` SHA256 hash of the file to guarantee integrity.
    * `key` Key used by the bundler.
    * `contentType` e.g. `application/javascript`, `image/jpeg`.
    * `url` Location where the asset is hosted.
  * `launchAsset` The asset that is used to launch the app.
  * `assets` assets used by the app, such as photos or fonts.

>   * `updateMetadata` The metadata associated with an update can be used for filtering the update (branchName) and also for the creation of more helpful errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `updateMetadata` The metadata associated with an update. This can be used for filtering the update (branchName) and also for the creation of more helpful errors.
```

We should also explain the `updateGroup` and `branchName` sub keys here. 

> also for the creation of more helpful errors.

I think this should be removed or we should add a lot more explanation.

Author: Removed them.

### Error

> A conformant server MUST return a `400` error if a manifest is not found.

Reviewer 2: Sometimes it can return a `404`, if the manifest is truly not found. The server might also return a `405` if the wrong method is used. It may also return a `500` if there's a server error.

We can re-write this to say that `400` is used when the client does not include a required parameter.

Reviewer: We should follow HTTP here and have clients support all response codes. For example, if the client asks for coffee and the server is not written in Java or JavaScript it may return 418.

## Server

There are two functions for a conformant server:

>   * serve the correct [response](#response) to a given [request](#request)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * serve the correct [response](#response) for a given [request](#request)
```

>   * host the assets refenced in the [manifests](#manifest)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * host assets referenced in the [manifests](#manifest)
```

> These naturally can be hosted on different servers, but it is also possible to do it all on a single server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Not sure this line adds to the protocol

> ### Cacheing Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Caching Policy
```

> Both the Manifest and the Asset endpoints MUST be served with a `cache-control` header set to an appropriately short period of time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both manifest and asset endpoints MUST be served with a `cache-control` header set to an appropriately short period of time. For example:
```

> For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
cache-control: max-age=0, private
```

### Compression

> Assets SHOULD be capable being served with `zip` and `brotli` compression.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assets SHOULD be capable of being served with `zip` and `brotli` compression.
```
Might be worth it to link to info about zip and brotli

Reviewer: No client supports zip, they're all gzip

> The asset hosted at a particular URL MUST NOT be changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The asset hosted at a particular URL MUST NOT be changed. Clients with stale updates may still require old assets.
```

### Channels and Branches

A `branch` is a collection of `updates` stored on the server, ordered by creation time.

> The server MUST implement logic that maps a request to a `branch` determined by the request header `expo-channel-name` as well as any of optional server defined headers.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is actually a requirement of a conformant server, is it?

Author: So I have learned! 😄

The server MUST use the name of this branch to 
  * define the `branchname` value of the `expo-manifest-filters` response header.
  * define the `branchName` value of the `updateMetadata` JSON inside the [manifest](#manifest)

> The simplest case is to create a single branch of the same name for a given channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest case is to create a single branch with the same name as the requested channel.
```

> More complex use cases would be to create multiple branches for a given channel. Then, using the request header `expo-rollout-token`, divide the users into groups that are mapped to different branches. This is useful for A/B testing or for gradually rolling out a new major version of an app.

Reviewer 2: Not sure this explanation is needed for this protocol

## Client

> See the [reference client](https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/packages/expo-updates)

Reviewer 2: Above, when I read "client", I was imagining an app made with expo.

I think this should explain that an Expo project runs expo-updates, and together that makes up the "client"

Reviewer: Maybe "client library"?

    ...
  }
  ```
  * If the `branchname` manifest filter is included, it MUST equal the `branchName` in the `manifest.updateMetadata`.
* `expo-server-defined-headers`  is an [expo-sfv](expo-sfv.md) dictionary. It is defines headers that a client MUST store and include in every subsequent [request](#request).

  * For example, during a rollout we require a client to send back a stable token: `expo-server-defined-headers: expo-rollout-token="token". 
* `cache-control` We recommend `cache-control: private, max-age=0`, but the only requirement is that it is a reasonable time frame. Please keep in mind that `updates` should be expected to be regularly created and the cache policy should not block this.

### Manifest

The body of the response MUST be a `manifest`. A `manifest` which is defined as a JSON conforming to the following description:

Let an `Asset` be the JSON:
```
{
  hash: string
  key: string
  contentType: string
  url: string
}
```
then the response body is referred to as the `manifest` and MUST be a json with format:
```
{
  id: string
  createdAt: date
  runtimeVersion: string
  launchAsset: Asset,
  assets: Asset[],
  updateMetadata: {
    updateGroup: string

>     updateGroupCreatedAt: date

Reviewer 2: delete?

    branchName: string
  }
}
```

>   * `id` The ID MUST uniquely specify the manifest, however the different headers may accompany identical IDs in a response.

Author: we send back a variety of headers like `server defined headers` that may change even though no new update has been publshed (e.g. if we update the expo rollout token for some reason).

>   * `id` The ID MUST uniquely specify the manifest, however the different headers may accompany identical IDs in a response.

Author: OK, just took the qualification out as it is seems to confuse more than clarify.
